+++
title = "AA 273 Final Project"
sub_title = "The SE-Sync Algorithm for Pose-Graph SLAM."

date="2017-06-01" # (only used for the projects to be listed in the correct order)

start_date = "May 2017"
end_date = "Jun 2017"

project_type = "Course project in AA 273: State Estimation and Filtering for Aerospace Systems, Stanford University"

software = "C++, ROS, MATLAB"

# Image thumbnail:
image_preview = "AA273_bw.png"

# Links:
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_video = ""
url_slides = "https://goo.gl/J2v7OU"
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Report", url = "https://goo.gl/puwDWF"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image="thesis_color.png" # (full-width header image)
small_image = "AA273_color.png" # (header image the same size as the article)
#video="https://www.youtube.com/embed/KNabhxX7Tv4?enablejsapi=1&version=3&playerapiid=ytplayer" # (like small_image, but with an embedded youtube video instead)
caption = ""

+++

We study the SE-Sync algorithm and how it can be utilized for pose-graph SLAM. We begin by presenting a historical review of the general SLAM problem and the optimization based paradigm of pose-graph SLAM. We then proceed to carefully define the pose-graph SLAM problem and present an intuitive but still sufficiently complete treatment of the SE-Sync algorithm and how it is applied to solve the corresponding optimization problem.

Our main contribution is an implementation of SE-Sync in a ROS compatible SLAM system obtained by replacing the back-end optimizer of an existing open source implementation. Utilizing a realistic simulation environment, we compare its performance with the original implementation in four different mapping environments of varying size and complexity, and find that SE-Sync performs equally well or slightly better in all cases.

We finally conclude that application of the SE-Sync algorithm in practical SLAM systems seems promising, but that further work is necessary to determine whether or not the improvement is of significant practical importance.
